# Gameplay

Issue tracker for Unvanquished gameplay related feedback, opinions, proposals
and new ideas.

To have a fruitful discussion, every issue here **must** fall clearly into one
of the following categories:

## Feedback

You can talk freely about how you felt during a game of Unvanquished or when
playing in general. You can let us know what was frustrating or enjoyable to
you but please make it clear that these are your feelings and refrain from
including any opinions, proposals or ideas in such an issue. This way we can
just accept your feelings as a fact and are free to pursue any number of
solutions or improvements in another issue. If your feedback suggests that a
particular thing needs to change in a particular way, we will close it.

Unlike opinions, feedback may not be answered with solution proposals but it
can help developers and players to come up with or agree with opinions about
the current state of the game. Because it is inherently true and cannot be
rejected, pure feedback can be very helpful and influencial in the long run.

**Example:** *When I play as a Dretch late in the match, I feel like I am stuck
and can hardly evolve again.*

## Opinion

You can voice the opinion that **one** distinct aspect of the game is badly
balanced or flawed by design. Unlike with feedback, please try to be objective
and do not base your contribution only on your personal experience (which we
cannot refute) but on arguments that we can agree with or reject. Please do not
include proposals or ideas in such an issue as we want to discuss your opinion
as such and may want to pursue a different solution than what you have in mind,
even if we agree with your opinion. After an opinion has been discussed, we
will flag it as rejected, controversial or agreed upon. We will close opinions
that are too broadly scoped to lead to agreement, so be as specific as you can.

**Example:** *The Barricade can be circumvented too easily with wall jumps.*

## Proposal

You may propose a change addressing **an agreed upon opinion**, which you must
cite within your issue. We will only discuss your proposal, not the opinion,
and may accept it for implementation and testing if we feel that it poses a
well rounded solution. Discussing alternative proposals within such an issue is
not allowed but others may suggest alterations or variants and you may adjust
your initial proposal based on those. We will use the same flags as for
opinions to keep track of good proposals even if we can't implement them
immediately.

We understand that it can be frustrating to have a pair of opinion and proposal
at the ready and not being allowed to discuss them in concert but this
limitation is important for us to keep track of things and allow multiple
proposals to compete, without anyone questioning their intention.

**Example:** *Make the Barricade slow and hurt humans walking on top of it.*

## Idea

If you have an idea that goes beyond resolving current perceived or agreed upon
issues you can explain it here. It is permitted to discuss how the idea could
affect the balance of the game **within follow-up comments** but you may never
advertise your idea as fixing a problem within the first post that opens the
issue. An idea must stand on its own and be worthwhile to pursue independently
of the current state of the game.

With ideas in particular, the initial explanation should show some effort. If
you have had a shower thought that you want to explain in one line, come to IRC
or the forums instead to build a more rounded idea with developers and other
players first.

**Example:** *Allow humans to teleport between Telenodes.*

